Fixed Mindset vs Growth Mindset

A few big differences between the fixed and growth mindsets is that those with fixed mind sets are intimidated by the fear of failure to the extent that they might forgo pursuing tasks which they recognize as having a big potential reward, but don’t pursue because of the risk of how failing at the challenge could affect their ego or reputation.  These two mindsets are not innate in people, but rather, are mostly believed to be formed from the environment in which we were raised.  The fixed mindset person could potentially have been praised a lot for results, whereas the growth mindset person could have been praised for his or her efforts.  When we overly focus on the results, rather than the effort, then we might not appreciate the journey we took to reach our ultimate success or even failure.  Failure should not be viewed as devastating and can even be a success if we can learn from those failures so that we can revise our strategy and try again in a new way.

The person with a Fixed Mindset is not receptive to taking on large challenges, and when they do, they are more apt to easily give up when faced with big obstacles; especially if it requires a lot of effort.  They might also tune out helpful criticism and feel threatened by the success of others.  Those with a growth mindset are opposite in every way from those mentioned above.  They might be more inquisitive, and feel bored when not having the mental stimulation of trying to solve a big problem.  They know that the first thing to do when tackling a big problem, is to segment what they already know, what they only know a little about, and what they know nothing about, but recognize is import for this challenge.  They then try to formulate a plan, then seek guidance from those who have done it well in the past.  They will surely face challenges, but they will not give up because they enjoy the effort.

Personally, I have never been fearful of a challenge or obstacle.  Actually, quite opposite.  I often feel like I can handle more than what I really can, then I end up getting over-extended, lose sleep, and get burned out once I realize how large of a scope that this project really is.  However, in most cases I push myself to complete it, but then I lose interest in pursuing that path to obtain future successes in that related area, due to my heart craving to learn about other challenges.  To this point I have been very successful in financial planning, teaching abroad, and more recently software sales.  I often felt like an outsider when entering these industries, like a fake, or fraud.  Because I didn’t have the proper formal education or background to complete the challenge successfully.  But my passion to succeed pushed me to explore all methods, and seek guidance from those who have experience.  Although I’m very proud of my successes in life, I have also had several failures.  I tried creating three businesses, each of which failed and cost me a fortune – all gone!  But I never had any regret, because I learned a lot in the process and I enjoyed it very much.

The CEO of my current employer, a quickly growing software company, spent most of his career as the head Navy Seals trainer.  He mentioned a few days ago that he had trained 100’s of seals and all were expert operators.  But what made the difference in the top seals is that they had “grit”.  He explained grit as boundless effort and determination.  They always get back up after getting knocked down.  They refuse to give up until the mission is accomplished.
